Budgeting is important to any business,
but it can be difficult with the black box of infrastructure costs.
If you've ever had to prepare a budget for IT costs,
you know how difficult it can be.
Being honest, most of us secretly just add 20 percent to last year's budget and move on.
But imagine you're putting your monitoring data to work for you.
Using machine learning, you could train
a model with your infrastructure usage and cost data.
That model could provide you with some educated scenarios
on your upcoming infrastructure costs based off of data,
not just an arbitrary percentage.
With this accuracy, IT budgeting can become
a competitive advantage for your company instead of just an anchor that holds it back.
We humans are intelligent and creative beings,
and we use that intelligence and creativity to select
the matrix to watch and alert on when there's an impending issue.
By default, even the most experienced Cloud developer
will keep an eye only on the matrix that he or she understands.
However, there's quite a lot of other data that might be important.
Who watches the data that we don't fully understand or view as worthy of our time?
With machine learning, a model can be trained with the breadth of
your monitoring data in order to surface
new information that might have been overlooked otherwise.
That information could lead to
faster incident resolution or prevention of incidence altogether.
Of course, it doesn't take an AI to tell us that e-commerce infrastructure
needs an extra boost at the end of the year to cover holiday demands.
But what about other temporary spikes that might happen throughout the year,
month, week, or day.
Truth be told, even the most experienced Cloud developers
can't stay on top of all of that.
On the other hand, with machine learning,
a model could be trained with the last year or two of monitoring data that would
result in predictions of many upcoming spikes with uncanny accuracy.
This new data, coupled with automated infrastructure scaling,
would result in extremely high availability
and give your company a formidable advantage over the competition.
There are so many possibilities.
Are you convinced yet?
Well, if you're interested in learning more about
data science and gaining new capabilities to utilize your monitoring data,
I highly recommend the data scientist,
Nanodegree here at Udacity.
I left a link for you below this video in case you want to check it out.
Monitoring isn't important until it is.
It's not interesting until it is.
If you're still not convinced that you need to set up monitoring for your project,
you'll just have to trust me, just do it.